# Account

​	On the bytom, Account is an abstract entity that can determine the ownership of assets on the blockchain by tracking control program or address which is included in the output of each transaction.The control program defines a series of conditions that must be met when the output is spent, and the address is generated by hashing the public key or script. Both can be used as the output address of a transaction, and when the next transaction spends this output, it needs to be signed with the private key matching the public key that corresponds to the output address.

​	There can be many account entities on localhost, which are not stored on the blockchain, but only exist locally. Only the control program or address created in the account will appear on the blockchain. However, when a transaction is being processed, local account data can provide queries that are more powerful and easier for users to understand.

## Account Balance

​	Account balance is also an abstract concept that is easy for users to understand.It is the sum of all assets in the UTXO which use the address or the control program of the account. When building an asset transfer transaction, your account will collect a number of UTXO automatically to satisfy the input of the new transaction.

## Create Account

​	Creating an account needs to provide an alias for the account, one or more keys, and the number of signatures.

- An account alias is mandatory, and it is a unique identifier when operating local accounts.
- Imprecisely speaking, the key can be used to generate an address and sign a transaction. There are single-sign account and multi-sign account according to the number of keys in the account.  See the address section for details.
- The number of signatures indicates how many signatures required at least to be signed by the private key when using the account to spend an asset and need to sign.